---
layout: page
permalink: /phd-statement/
title: PhD Advising Statement
---
This is a description of my style of Ph.D. supervision, which hopefully will
clarify my expectations and help you judge whether I am a good fit for you.

Let's start with something basic yet **very important**.

Getting a doctorate could be one of your **biggest life achievements** and the
most amazing time of your life. This, provided you can actually make it to the
end of the line, in which case it can turn into one of your worst nightmares.
What determines which of these two scenarios you get into is the **relationship
with your** main co-worker, i.e. your **supervisor**! 

> The success of your PhD depends almost entirely on the relationship between you and your supervisor. 

The failure rate for a PhD student is typically very high and this is because a
high rate of  PhD students do not understand that a PhD is a rather serious
commitment so it is **crucial** to find an advisor whose interests match yours
and **a person who you feel comfortable working with**. 

To be a good match to me you need to have a theoretically-inclined mindset. It
is said that 

> Computer Science Is Not About Computers, Any More Than Astronomy Is About Telescopes (cit. Edsger W. Dijkstra)

**Computer Science** is in fact a branch of mathematics that studies the
foundations of computability. It **has nothing to do with computers**. The fact
that it is has the word "Computer" attached to is an unfortunate coincidence (or
a cunning marketing device). In order to do a PhD with me you have to love
passionately (not just like) Category Theory, Functional Programming and/or Type
Theory. [Here]({% link research.markdown %}) you can find more information about
my research.

If you do not like what I just said above you should not apply for a PhD with
me. 

On the other hand, if you share my ideas or you would like to learn more about
this you are very welcome to get in touch. 

The application process goes via the School of Computing where you are required
to write a mini essay (Research Proposal, 3/4 pages at least). The only purpose
of this essay is to understand what your interests are and if I can be a good
supervisor to you. It is not a test! 

If you do not know how to write a Research Proposal check this [Youtube
Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s5nLdm4Dt-0) out first, then send me the
first draft via email. Even if it is not perfect. If I think your topics are
aligned to mine I will help you finalizing it before it gets submitted.

Applications usually open around January and close at the beginning of March, so keep an eye out. 

[Here](/assets/phd-advert-2023.txt)'s the advert for 2023 scholarships. 

In particular, check out [this page](https://www.kent.ac.uk/courses/postgraduate/283/computer-science) for info about what is needed to be eligible (VISAs, English certificate, etc.)

Good luck! 
